# Introduction
Grav is a modern open source flat-file CMS. This repository contains the official Docker Image for Grav and was modified to fit the requirements of GB3.

This docker image is currently pretty minimal and uses:

* apache
* GD library
* Unzip library
* php8.x
* php8.x-opcache
* php8.x-yaml
* cron
* vim editor

# Getting Started

Original dockerfile from: https://github.com/getgrav/docker-grav

See https://getgrav.org/ for more information.

## Overall setup

This setup is customized around Grav's filesystem-based approach. For persistence, we need to backup

* `user/accounts`: Holds all accounts that have access to grav
* `user/data`: Holds the data of flex-objects
* `user/pages`: Although currently not needed, users might create pages and these need to be backupped
* `assets`: Holds user-provided files like thumbnails
* `backup`: Holds the backups that are generated by grav

In order for this to work, these directories are placed inside a rootfolder in our container, named `/cms_data`. This
folder is then symlinked to the actual `/var/www/html/cms` folder where Grav resides. Through this, all changes to any of
the symlinked folders' data will be made in the root folder. This root folder should be used as a Docker volume and
allows for backups.

Since we need to provide initial data (e.g. initial users or initial topics), the Docker entrypoint file checks for the
existence of these files and only copies them if they do not exist.

After the initial update there will be three users available:
- **admin**\
The administrator has full access to the CMS and all content.\
Default password: `Admin1234`
- **maintainer**\
The maintainer has access to plugins and maintenance tools like backup.\
Default password: `Maintainer1234`
- **writer**\
The writer has access to the content and can create, edit and delete pages.\
Default password: `Writer1234`

> **⚠ Important:** Change the default passwords for three pre-installed users immediately after the initial setup.

## Building the image from Dockerfile

```shell
docker build -t gb3-grav-cms:latest .
```

To build a docker image within a proxy you can use the following command instead:

```shell
docker build --build-arg http_proxy=http://<proxy_ip>:<proxy_port> --build-arg https_proxy=https://<proxy_ip>:<proxy_port> -t gb3-grav-cms:latest .
```
You only need to replace `proxy_ip` and `proxy_port`

### Docker build arguments
* `SUBFOLDER` (Optional, Default: `/cms`) Moves the entire CMS content from the root folder into the given subfolder; used if the base URL does contain a sub domain, e.g. https://maps.zh.ch/cms 

## Running Grav image:

```shell
docker run -p 8080:80 -v nameOfMyVolume:/cms_data --name gb3-grav-cms gb3-grav-cms:latest
```

Example: `docker run -p 8080:80 -v grav-data:/cms_data --name gb3-grav-cms gb3-grav-cms:latest`

Point browser to `http://localhost:8080/cms/admin` and login as a user account (see Keepass for the default passwords)

# Development

To add new features to Grav it's easiest if you start the container using **docker-compose**. This binds all important data 
to your local development folders (./data and ./system). **Note:** If you add data, this will be synced as well; so be
careful when committing changes.

### Running Grav Image with docker-compose

Firstly, rename `.env.example` to `.env`. Then use the following command to build and start the docker image using compose:

```shell
docker-compose up -d -f ./docker-compose.yml
```

Docker compose will create two volumes:
* `all-grav-data` points to the CMS root folder containing all Grav data
* `grav-data` points to a small subset of Grav data that is usually used in a productive environment to backup all important files.

Point browser to `http://localhost:8080/admin` and login as a user account (see Keepass for the default passwords)

# Deployment

The deployment takes one volume to persist user data - this volume is mapped to the container's `/cms_data`.

To run this locally:
```shell
docker run -p 8080:80 -v nameOfVolume:/cms_data --name gb3-grav-cms gb3-grav-cms:latest
```

Example: `docker run -p 8080:80 -v grav-data:/cms_data --name gb3-grav-cms gb3-grav-cms:latest`

This command will boot the container and mount two local folders for synchronizing data.

# Notes

## Caching

For the uploaded images, we use an apache-based caching mechanism. This is done by setting the `Cache-Control` header
to `max-age=31536000` for all files in the `assets` folder. This value seems to be recommended if you look for similar 
issues throughout the web. This means that the browser will cache the files for a year and only request them again if 
the cache is cleared. Because Grav is configured to upload user-provided files to `assets/uploads`, this folder is also 
cached.

Note that this is only done for the parent `assets` folder as well, so other files (e.g. images used by Grav itself) are
also cached, which *could* lead to problems if the files are updated. We did not move the the `.htaccess` file to the 
`uploads` folder, as this folder is created and managed by Grav and we do not want to interfere with CHMOD there. *If*
this should become an issue, this would be the first thing to change.

If issues arise because we so aggressively cache (e.g. sometimes, the image will still be displayed even if it does no
longer exist (use `CTRL+F5` to force a reload)), we can change the caching mechanism to a more conservative one; or we
could add cache busting parameters in the frontend (e.g. daily timestamps to reload them each day).